feat(magic-button): add magic-button documentation (#673)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: versioned_docs/version-2.x/magic-button/preview-mode.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Preview Mode
description:
  Get a sneak peek of your content's appearance and make necessary changes for
  an optimal user experience.
---

import BrowserWindow from "@site/src/components/BrowserWindow";
import SinceVersion from "@site/src/components/SinceVersion";

<SinceVersion tag="2.25" />

> **Preview Mode** is an integral feature of Magic Button, specifically designed
> to enable content creators to preview their drafts from the CMS before they go
> live.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Preview Mode** is an integral feature of Magic Button, specifically designed
to enable content creators to preview their drafts from systems supporting this feature
before publishing changes.
```

## How to activate Preview Mode

### Using the Magic Button

> Activate the **Preview Mode** directly from the Magic Button. Click on the Magic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Activate the **Preview Mode** directly from the Editorial Toolbox. Click on the Magic
```

Button and select the Preview Mode option.

<div style={{ width: 600, maxWidth: "100%" }}>
  <BrowserWindow noPadding>
    <img
      src={require("./assets/enable-preview.gif").default}
      width="100%"
      height="100%"
      style={{ objectFit: "contain", marginBottom: -10 }}
    />
  </BrowserWindow>
</div>

### Programmatically

Alternatively, **Preview Mode** can be activated programmatically by leveraging
the

> [ContributionModeLoader](https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/blob/7a2aee7e11c7bd45cfc3a5a940407f9e220e66f4/src/server/modules/Front-Commerce/Contribution-Mode/contribution-mode/loaders/ContributionModeLoader.js#L57-60).

Author: Should be updated after refactor: FC-1449

There are two methods for this:

### `setPreviewMode`

The **setPreviewMode** method is typically used for safe activation of Preview
Mode. If Contribution Mode is not enabled, Preview Mode will not be activated.

This method is exposed in the

> [Contribution GraphQL schema](https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/blob/7a2aee7e11c7bd45cfc3a5a940407f9e220e66f4/src/server/modules/Front-Commerce/Contribution-Mode/contribution-mode/schema.gql)

Author: Should be updated after refactor: FC-1449

```graphql
mutation EnablePreviewMode($enable: Boolean) {
  contribution(input: $enable) {
    setPreviewMode
  }
}
```

You can also call this method directly from the loader:

```js
export default {
  namespace: "MyModule",
  dependencies: ["Front-Commerce/Contribution-Mode"],
  resolvers: {
    Mutation: {

>       myQuery: async (root, args, context, info) => {

Reviewer: same feedback than for contribution mode: a more realistic example should be used

Mode. If Contribution Mode is not enabled, Preview Mode will not be activated.

It is also possible to enable the preview mode by using the
`contribution.setPreviewMode` mutation:

```graphql
mutation EnablePreviewMode {
  contribution {
    setPreviewMode(enabled: true) {
      success
      enabled
    }
  }
}
```

You can also call this method directly from the loader:

```js
export default {
  namespace: "MyModule",
  dependencies: ["Front-Commerce/Contribution-Mode"],
  resolvers: {
    Mutation: {
      setPreviewMode: async (root, args, context) => {
        return context.loaders.ContributionMode.setPreviewMode(args.enabled);
      },
    },
  },
};
```

### `forceEnablePreviewMode`

`forceEnablePreviewMode` is used to forcefully activate Preview Mode,
irrespective of whether Contribution Mode is enabled or not. It's useful when
you have custom endpoints which validate if the current user is an authorized
contributor.

Typically, this method is used in custom endpoints:

```js title="src/server/modules/my-module/module.config.js"
import { Router } from "express";
import makeLoadersFromRequest from "server/core/graphql/makeLoadersFromRequest";

> export default {
>   path: "/my-path/preview",
>   router: (staticConfig) => {
>     const router = Router();
> 
>     router.use(async (req, res, next) => {
>       const loaders = makeLoadersFromRequest(staticConfig, req);
> 
>       // Check if preview mode is already enabled.
>       // highlight-start
>       const isPreview = loaders.ContributionMode.preview;
>       if (!isPreview && req.query.secret !== "foobar") {
>         return res.status(403).send("Forbidden");
>       }
>       if (!isPreview) {
>         loaders.ContributionMode.forceEnablePreviewMode();
>       }
>       // highlight-end
> 
>       return next();
>     });
> 
>     return router;
>   },
> };

Reviewer 2: **issue:** This example is wrong, it's missing a depth level.

```suggestion
export default {
  endpoint: {
    path: "/my-path/preview",
    router: (staticConfig) => {
      const router = Router();
      router.use(async (req, res, next) => {
        const loaders = makeLoadersFromRequest(staticConfig, req);
        // Check if preview mode is already enabled.
        // highlight-start
        const isPreview = loaders.ContributionMode.preview;
        if (!isPreview && req.query.secret !== "foobar") {
          return res.status(403).send("Forbidden");
        }
        if (!isPreview) {
          loaders.ContributionMode.forceEnablePreviewMode();
        }
        // highlight-end
        return next();
      });
      return router;
    },
  },
};

```
